Add tuto Argo (#4845)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/climate/tutorials/argo_pangeo/tutorial.md

Argo is an international program that collects information from inside the ocean using a fleet of robotic instruments that drift with the ocean currents and move up and down between the surface and a mid-water level. 

The data used in this tutorial are from the Argo gliders network. We are interested in the following variables: water temperature, latitude, longitude and time. Our main objective is to plot the water temperature with respect to time. For this we will be using the netCDF xarray tools available in the Galaxy Europe (or your favourite Galaxy Instance) server.

These tools are part of the Pangeo ecosystem in which the next generation of open-source analysis tools for ocean, atmosphere and climate science can be developed, distributed, and sustained. These tools must be scalable in order to meet the current and future challenges of big data, and these solutions should leverage the existing expertise outside of the geoscience community.

> This tutorial is part of set of tutorials on the [Galaxy Earth System](https://earth-system.usegalaxy.eu/) supported by the [EOSC FAIR-EASE project](https://fairease.eu/).

Reviewer: do you want to [make a learning path for this](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/contributing/faqs/learning-pathways.html)? It could be a cool way to highlight all of the related tutorials in a coherent way :)

Author: oooh good idea !! Yes i'll do that soon

> <agenda-title></agenda-title>
>
> In this tutorial, we will cover:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

> > <details-title>Short introduction on how Galaxy works</details-title>

Reviewer: do you want to add galaxy 101 short as a 'requirement' in the metadata? It could help indicate to students where to find the pre-requisite material.

```
requirements:
  - type: "internal"
    topic_name: introduction
    tutorials:
      - galaxy-intro-short
```

Each Argo probe is an autonomous, free drifting, profiling float, i.e. a probe that can’t control its trajectory but is able to control its buoyancy and thus to move up and down the water column as it wishes. Argo floats continuously operate the same program, or cycle, illustrated in the figure below. After 9 to 10 days of free drift at a parking depth of about 1000m, a typical Argo float dives down to 2000m and then shoals back to the surface while measuring pressure, temperature and salinity. Once it reaches the surface, the float sends by satellite its measurements to a data center where they are processed in real time and made freely available on the web in less than 24h00.

![Schema of a typical 10 days program, cycle, of an Argo float](../../images/argo_pangeo/argofloats_cycle.png "10 days program, cycle, of an Argo float")

> Here we will focus on the Caribbean sea surrounding the Antilles during April and May. The 9th of April 2021 an eruption of the volcano La Soufriere Saint Vincent (Antilles) occured. Another tutorials on this event is available on the [Galaxy Training Network]{% link topics/climate/tutorials/sentinel5_data/tutorial.md %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we will focus on the Caribbean sea surrounding the Antilles during April and May. The 9th of April 2021 an eruption of the volcano La Soufriere Saint Vincent (Antilles) occured. Another tutorials on this event is available on the [Galaxy Training Network]({% link topics/climate/tutorials/sentinel5_data/tutorial.md %}).
```

> Here we will focus on the Caribbean sea surrounding the Antilles during April and May. The 9th of April 2021 an eruption of the volcano La Soufriere Saint Vincent (Antilles) occured. Another tutorials on this event is available on the [Galaxy Training Network]{% link https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/climate/tutorials/sentinel5_data/tutorial.html %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we will focus on the Caribbean sea surrounding the Antilles during April and May. The 9th of April 2021 an eruption of the volcano La Soufriere Saint Vincent (Antilles) occured. Another tutorials on this event is available on the [Galaxy Training Network]{% link topics/climate/tutorials/sentinel5_data/tutorial.md %}.
```
